# Chat-System-Application

### Overview
This is a Chat System. The system allows creating new applications where each application will have a token(generated by the system) and a name(provided by the client). The token is the identifier that devices use to send chats to that application. Each application can have many chats. a chat should have a number. Numbering of chats in each application starts from 1 and no 2 chats in the same application may have the same number. The number of the chat should be returned in the chat creation request. A chat contains messages and messages have numbers that start from 1 for each chat. The number of the message should also be returned in the message creation request. The client should never see the ID of any of the entities. The client identifies the application by its token and the chat by its number along with the application token.


### API Reference

You can use this postman [collection](Chat_System.postman_collection) for all the backend apis used.

### Built With

* Ruby
* Rails
* Mysql
Used as main datastore.
* Redis
Used for caching.
* Elastic Search
Used for partially matching messages.
* Sidekiq
Used as queuing system to avoid writing directly to the database.(used in creating chats and messages).
* Rufus
Used for scheduling a job every 10 mins to update chats_count and messages_count.

## Run and test app on your local machine

### Prerequisites
You need to install docker and docker-compose on your machine.

### Installing

Clone the repo

```
git clone https://github.com/omarsaad7/Chat-System-Application.git
```
#### Run back-end server
Get inside Application folder
```
cd Chat-System-Application
```
Run using docker-compose
```
docker-compose up
```


## Author

* [**Omar Saad**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/omar-saad-90862a163/)

